# Discussion {#sec:discussion}

This section presents the results and outcomes of this study in context with
other regulatory analyses.

## Congestion {#sec:congestion}

A comparison of ridesourcing VMT as a proportion of total VMT with other cities
that have performed similar studies shows that Toronto is at an earlier stage
of maturity. The TNCs Today report by the SFCTA estimated VMT from ridesourcing
vehicles to be at 6.5% of city-wide weekday VMT \cite{tncstoday} in 2016. A
2019 report by the NYC Taxi and Limousine Commission and the NYC Department of
Transportation estimates 30% of VMT in Manhattan can be attributed to
ridesourcing vehicles \cite{nyctlc2019report}. The same report recommends
continuing the freeze on issuing new licenses to ridesourcing drivers and
requiring ridesourcing companies to reduce cruising (any time spend with the
ridesourcing app on but without passengers) as a percentage of driving time to
31% in Manhattan.

## Curbside Management {#sec:curbside-management}

A number of cities have implement dedicated passenger loading/unloading zones
to respond to growing demand for curb space, to reduce conflicts with competing
uses for curb access, and as part of their Vision Zero programs. These include
\trbcite{westhollywoodcurb} and Washington, D.C. \cite{ddotcurb}. The City of
Toronto will use pick-up/drop-off (PUDO) data to inform the design of bike
infrastructure and inform prioritization of infrastructure upgrades. Further
study would be required to determine how designated passenger loading zones
could be implemented and how providing digitized curb regulation data could
better manage curb utilization. Additional monitoring and analysis is needed to
better understand the extent of conflicts between cyclists and pick-up and
drop-off activity and to determine if this activity correlates with improved
cycling comfort and reduced rates of cyclist conflicts.
